That’s it for today’s class. Thank you for your hard work.
Professor! May I have a moment to ask you something?
Okay!
What is it you want to ask me?
I want to ask about copyright.
I saw an ad in a movie theater warning people not to engage
in voyeurism and illegal downloading.
What can copyright owners do when there is an infringement?
What caught my attention was an article about a court judgment
in which a person who edited and posted shortened versions of
movies on a video posting site
was sued and awarded hundreds of millions of yen in damages.
After hearing Kasumi’s story,
I wondered if I edited the video to a shorter length, the story’s
original intent would be lost.
I learned about moral rights before. Can the author of the movie
exercise moral rights?
It’s important for the three of you to have questions.
First, you all know that the Copyright Law aims to protect the
exploitation of copyrighted works and the rights of copyright
owners.
However, in reality, there are illegal activities,
such as copyright infringements.
There are two main actions a copyright owner can take when
there is such an infringement.
We could say a criminal trial and a civil trial,
but do you understand the difference?
No, I don’t know exactly... I’ve heard the names before...
I will explain in detail!
Please.
The difference between a criminal trial and a civil trial is that a
prosecutor prosecutes a criminal trial. If convicted, the defendant
will be given a criminal record.
Scary!
Civil trials, on the other hand, are used to settle disputes
between individuals or organizations.
What Aoi mentioned earlier is a criminal trial.
The Copyright Law provides penalties, such as fines,
imprisonment, or both, to be imposed on copyright infringers.
In Japan, this is the “offence subject to complaint.”
The public prosecutor cannot petition the court for a trial without
a complaint from the person whose rights have been infringed.
However, selling pirated copies or uploading them to the Internet
is an offense not subject to complaint,
which means that prosecution is possible
even without a complaint.
Yes.
We have learned about the offence subject to complaint before.
However, while such measures penalize the infringer,
they do not address the infringed party, right?
So, one more thing. As the article Kasumi saw,
the Copyright Law has provisions regarding the claims a
copyright owner can make against an infringer
when infringement occurs.
This is treated as a civil trial.
Specifically, the copyright owner can demand an injunction
against the infringement and compensation
for damages caused by the infringement.
In addition, regarding the moral rights that
Naoya was concerned about,
the author can also demand measures necessary to restore reputation.
Wasn’t copyright infringement a fine of up to 10 million yen?
What is the amount of damages claimed?
I heard that the article Kasumi saw was for several hundred
million yen after the court judgment.
Let me explain about that.
10 million yen is the maximum fine under the Copyright Law
for criminal cases.
For a civil case, the Copyright Law provides the following method
for calculating the amount of damages.
In the example that Kasumi mentioned, the amount equivalent to
the royalty fee,
not the profit gained by the infringer, was found as the amount
of damages. It is a considerable amount.
Sure. It’s a claim for damages. You calculate the amount of
damages and file a claim.
Hundreds of millions? Still, that’s a lot of damages.
That’s why there are so many warnings at movie theaters about
preventing voyeurism and banning illegal downloading.
Professor, we are not talking about movies, but I want to ask you
about paid software.
For example, if a student uses an illegal copy of the software,
will the software company file a claim for damages?
Kasumi, yes, this has happened in the past at several universities.
Of course,
it has to be proven that the software was illegally copied.
Still, since it can be reported from people in a user company,
recently, the licenses can be verified through the network,
and the software company can ascertain this fact.
After confirming this, there have been cases where they have
claimed damages from universities.
I knew it...
However, in many cases, the parties discuss with each other
and settle the case without actually going to court.
However, there are some cases where universities pay substantial
amounts of compensation.
To prevent this,
universities ensure that users use software with proper licenses
and manage them well.
In addition, software used by faculty, staff, and students is now
subject to a contract for a university as a whole
rather than having them purchase individual licenses,
making it more difficult for unauthorized use.
However, not all software is supported in such a way.
Sometimes things you do without thinking can lead to
severe problems,
so everyone should pay attention to the license
and never use it illegally.
Yes, I understand.